like 43 here is a lick which is similar
to part of the solo in nuage as played
by django reinhardt it shows you how
django used his guitar as a musical
system you can easily see how Django was
thinking 1953 was the last year of a
short life his playing had become more
modern than only a couple of years
earlier his playing was of course
influenced by the Bieber players of that
time with this lick I would like to
explain how the alteration of a dominant
seventh chord works this way of
approaching music theory on a guitar is
a lot more efficient than studying from
a book in my opinion Django did not read
music and as far as I know he didn't
study theory on the other hand he did
understand music
- this is in fact a f 7 9 chord arpeggio
as played by Django in 1953 in nuage
while the court is b7 which resolves to
a minor
this is F 7 9 this wants to go to E
minor and this is B 7 that wants to
resolve to a minor as well this is again
a good example of a tritone substitute
as you can see every note in the F 7 9
lick is related to B 7 sharp 5 flat 9
sharp 9 so it has the same function they
both want to go to E minor
and that is what Django hears and sees
on his guitar probably he was not
thinking I am going to play a tritone
substitute no he just saw what was
happening on his guitar
Django makes a beautiful line with his
guitarist acknowledge and of course by
using his ears it's also very nice how
he ends the run the run ends on the nine
of the E minor chord the complete lick
makes it solid musical unit with a good
start and a good ending